Hello and welcome to my winter coding vlog. I'm an indie app developer and I live in Oslo Norway. And in these vlogs I'd like to share my days with you, give you a real perspective behind the scenes of someone who is trying to make a living as a developer in 2026. Today is an incredibly foggy day and nevertheless we are continuing and showing up for work. But it's still very very cold and the sea is still frozen, which I decided to put to the test a bit later. It's something I wanted to do for a very long time, but for today I'll be working on a new feature. But more importantly I wanted to present my case as to why Apple really needs to fire the entire software department. And I'm really not kidding. But before that I really need to get inside and review and get ready to work. This bakery maybe some of you already know is one of my favorites, but man I haven't been here in a while and it's become very expensive. However it's been a very long week and today is Friday so I decided to treat myself with what I consider to be the flagship sandwich of all Oslo. It's just really a nice sandwich and some avocado but it's really been my favorite over the years. I've never had this and a coffee cost me $24 or the equivalent in Norwegian Corona but that's inflation. It's wild what's going on. I didn't really expect that it was kind of shocked and maybe it's not even worth it to be honest. But anyhow recently I shipped a disc cleaning feature to my app which was kind of a larger feature and difficult to ship because there was a lot of inherent risk involved so today I'll be working on a smaller one. It's just a new keyboard shortcut. But you know I thought it would be a good opportunity to show you around the code base without really working on something overly complicated. The feature I wanted to add is a keyboard shortcut to show the menu bar drop down. You can of course toggle it with the mouse but the reason I'm adding it is that some users are using a menu bar management app like bartender and they want to access the drop down while the icon is hidden and I thought that was a pretty valid use case. So the first thing I need to do is to make sure that the drop down will show even if there is no menu bar icon which was a simple change in the code which I already prepared for some time in the past. Today I found a time to work on this feature so you're finally getting it done. And then the rest of the app is really based around the command pattern which defines simply what actions are going to be performed when certain keyboard shortcuts are pressed. So the first step is to define a new action in my app just for opening the menu bar drop down. The other side of the same coin is the keyboard shortcuts definitions which are saved on iCloud as part of your preferences and so just adding a new keyboard shortcut is not really that difficult. It's just one more property in this class actually in this struct to be more precise. But I will not be automatically assigning some default value because I've been working really hard on my release notes so I don't really have to force this feature upon every single user hopefully the people who find it useful will go into the preferences and I sign it themselves. And so let's go to the preferences and assign some sample keyboard shortcut to just try and test it out and I must say that I was a little bit overconfident that it would work right off the bat. I made a silly simple mistake and I wonder if I used Cloud would Cloud make the same but it doesn't matter. The problem was that I didn't really wire up the logic to dispatch the new command that I just added after some keys are pressed and so all I really needed to do was already in place but I needed to add one more if statement to compare the currently pressed keyboard shortcut and see if it's equal to the one that's assigned in the preferences and if it is then we're dispatching the new action or the new command and after made this fix it all really started to work beautifully. But even though my code is working beautifully I think Apple's code is a steaming pile of garbage. That is one big pile of shit. And I've been vocal about this many times on my vlog and now I want to show you exactly why. I really mean it this time Apple should really fire the software division. You're fired! Chief the planetarium party. Oh right you're on fire I need you come here. What do you know about high society? Check this out. I have a user who bought one menu before so let's just read the email. I bought your software one menu not that long ago and after an app update which is the update migrating to glassy I can't use it anymore. It says I need a newer version of macOS. Now check this out. This user is running an M4 Pro chip so it's not some legacy machine and it's perfectly capable of running macOS Tahoe but check this out. As you can see I'm on 15.5.4 which is up to date and I don't want to switch to Tahoe. So this user had the latest operating system and downgraded and I can tell you this is not the only user reporting the same. There are loads and loads of people who simply refuse to use macOS Tahoe. I think that's a blatant failure of Apple's software division. And so what am I supposed to do as a developer on their platform? How can I possibly maintain two different versions of my app? Because it's not a simple migration. It's a whole redesign because the glassy is really different from what we had before. It's less legible, you have to redesign everything and it's not a one to one translation. So for me unfortunately as a developer I will now have to issue a refund to this user because it would be only fair to do so and it's completely within the user's right to downgrade to the previous operating system because I understand the new one is just half baked. So many people including myself are complaining and Apple has done exactly nothing about it. I mean come on Apple. Maybe not like a multi trillion dollar company. What's going on? I've always believed that the hardware division in Apple is the one carrying all the weight and the software guys are just slacking and delivering average software at best. At best. And you know my app is also a living proof. Like it's just a window manager and a few other utilities but those are all fundamental features of an operating system that you would expect to have in 2026 and yet Apple is not delivering those features to any quality standard whatsoever. And so my app actually has like 11,000 daily active users isn't that crazy? But here we are. Anyhow just final those guys fired a software department. But because I'm issuing this refund and because most of the features in my app are completely free I have to supplement my income with a few sponsored segments during this channel. And after the sponsored segment we're going to explore the sturdiness of the ice in the harbor as I promised. But first a quick word from data impulse is a proxy provider. Now you might be thinking what's that? Simply put data impulse allows you to send requests from your backend services through a different location. But why? For example you might be working on an SEO optimization tool and this allows you to track search engine rankings in different countries programmatically at scale for thousands of websites and keyword combinations. Data impulse has global coverage of over 195 locations worldwide. Not just data centers but more importantly residential IPs with over 95 million IPs in the residential pool which gives you pinpoint precision and a realistic picture of the kind of responses regular users get. You can build price tracking at enterprise scale. Thousands of product listings, comparative analytics and even fraud protection for e-commerce. It's very well known that prices and offers are different across different locations and even neighborhoods in the same city. You can build a competitor monitoring service so that your users can track their competitors in different regions through a dashboard that you provide and many similar services. What makes data impulse great is the simple and transparent pricing. Just one dollar per gigabyte with no monthly resets or expiring traffic. Simply pay for what you use and that's it. So if you're working on an idea that requires fast and reliable proxies including residential IPs check out the link in the description. Alright this is something I wanted to do for a long long time. Multiple years actually because I've noticed that the sea always freezes over and ice really appears to be quite sturdy and thick as I was thinking today's the day. So I went down onto this dock which is supposed to be floating and I've ever sat down to check the ice and I kind of stomped on it a couple of times and it was like rock solid. So it's like okay let's give it a go. And I just stepped on the ice and I expected to hear or feel maybe some cracks or some movement even under my feet but as I was just walking it was nothing. It was like walking on pavement. It was crazy solid. I just didn't want to risk it and go far or go fast so that I fall because maybe the fall would trigger the ice to break but just walking like this it felt so incredibly sturdy. It was an amazing experience and I'm kind of sad I didn't try to do it before. But anyhow this is all I wanted to show you for today. I really appreciate that you watched all the way until the end and as always I really appreciate all of your guys support for sending emails. I read all your comments and I try to respond to as many as I can. I truly truly appreciate it. It really helps me out here on YouTube. So if you liked the video if you enjoyed this kind of technical but also relaxed vlogging make sure to like and subscribe and I will see you in the next one.